# A Few Thoughts


I want to apologize because I think I did a poor job communicating last night.  I also maybe was just confused and said/meant the wrong thing in addition to doing a poor job communicating.   As you have noted, we have often had a similar unpleasant conversation about money, and I’ve been trying to figure out what I can do to make that better and help us move on from that.  There are a few things I think I have done poorly here: 

1. I have hoarded the financial info in a separate account.  As a result, you have not had the information required to decide on your own judgment what our budget should be.  So you’ve had to ask me to approve things, and I’ve felt like I’ve had to play the role of the “no man.”  This is a role I do not relish playing, and I think if we both had the same info, I would be able to give up that part.

1. My instincts, as you know, are pretty cheap/save-for-a-rainy-day.  I think I am often paranoid and worrisome about finances.  As an example, I wanted to spend less than we did on a house—and I have clearly been proven wrong on that.   


1. I know we have over the last year or two started spending a lot more money.  But I just don’t know if it’s “too much” or not.  I feel like I am flying blind and can’t tell whether there’s an issue or it’s just my innate financial paranoia.  I worry about paying for three latin tuitions and three college tuitions.  I think there’s a good chance that if we took just a little time to get a clear picture of where we are, then I would see that it’s ok and I wouldn’t have to keep worrying about it.  Of course, the picture could also say that we should trim a little, which would be good also—it’s better to trim a little early than cut deep late.  As an example, you mentioned keeping George at home for a couple days—which sounds reasonable but I just don’t have the info at this point to know whether we should do that or not.


So here are a couple ideas I have that I think might help us get to a better state.  I think if we take a little time to look for any underlying issues—and I am not sure there are any—then the unpleasant conversation will not keep happening. 

1. Give you full access to the Vanguard account.  So you can buy stocks, etc.   To do this, we need for you to change your apple id to two factor authentication and also to update the password.  I can help with that whenever.   In addition to the Vanguard account (~$2.1m), we currently have about $200k in the BofA account (with no more bonus payments coming until jan 2024).   And maybe ~$900k of home equity.

1. Spend 10 or 15 minutes getting a picture of our current spending.  This is what I have so far: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N4N29WcLZ_3PRrovLWUwKL8HgKxAZHen8jV3R0_JFbc/edit?usp=sharing (https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1N4N29WcLZ_3PRrovLWUwKL8HgKxAZHen8jV3R0_JFbc/edit?usp=sharing).  I am hoping we can update this over the next couple weeks and make sure it covers all the major areas.   I am looking for recurring things as opposed to one-time costs like Saddle initiation or garage.


I would love to hear your thoughts on this and any other ideas you might have to make this topic smoother.  I have been trying to think hard about this, because I really do think that with a little work we can get to a much better place w.r.t this issue.  But there’s no need for you to respond.

Love,
Austin